I think we're all done with our form right now.
We've got a name a phone and we can select a shift.
So as soon as a user enters all these things then we can start to try to take this data and submitted
off to some location.
Now the user submits this form we want to persist this data somehow.
So if the user ever logs out and then logs back in or even installs the app or uses on a different device.
Right.
We still want the user to see their list of employees to save our data.
We're going to be making use of firebase.
We're already using it for authentication so it makes sense to also use it to store our data as well.
Firebase was definitely initially known for its data storage capabilities anyways so definitely makes
sense to use it for this purpose.
One thing I want to say is a quick reminder remember that the object that we're trying to save right
here is what we're going to refer to as an employee model.
It's going to be an object that has a name a phone and a shift.
And right now that is what our form is producing inside of the employee form reducer the employee former
douceur is going to end up with a name a phone and a shift to keep that in mind.
I want to open up the firebase console for a moment so I can open up firebase counsel and then on the
left hand side of my project going to find the database tab right here here's my database right now
our database is completely empty so we don't see any data in here whatsoever.
We can see just you know Menger 2 3 to a B which is the name of my app fire Meece is a song data store.
So it's not like a sequel database where you have a number of different tables and different rows on
each of these tables.
A Jaison data store.
The easiest way to picture this data is to just or the structure or the data that we're going to put
in here is to just think of it as a javascript object.
We're going to have some number of properties and each property has a value.
You can only spend a little bit of time kind of exploring the data structure of our application and
how we might structure that inside of our firebase database.
I really recommend whenever using firebase to spend some time to think about the schema of the data
that you want to see even here because it's really going to save you some time down the line.
I've already taken the liberty of putting together a schema for our database.
So let's go ahead check out the diagram and see what it's going to look like.
Now this diagram really not that useful.
It's a nasty little diagram Maybe if this argument doesn't make sense.
I don't blame you.
It's really hard to model JS on in a diagram format so we're going to look at it in this kind of diagram
format and then we'll look at it in plain JS on form as well.
Maybe that'll be a little bit more useful.
So first let me start off by telling you that the schema that we're going to use here for this app is
super generic and common in firebase and I picked this schema on purpose to make sure that you can reuse
it on your own apps as well.
Without a lot of change.
So everything we're going to do right here you can reuse on are a lot of very different types of apps
and have a lot of luck with it.
It's going to work out really well for you.
So let's go over the diagram and we'll look at the Rajai saw.
I think the J-Zone make a lot more sense.
The overall blue box is meant to represent just firebase like here's firebase here is our database inside
of firebase we are going to create a collection of users.
So we're going to have a number of users and cyder application each user.
So like user one user to an user or three is going to have their own collection of employees.
So user one has a collection of ploys that contains employee number one an employee number two at this
time we are already authenticating users right like users exist on our application.
But just because we have authentication enabled with firebase does not mean that we automatically get
all the different users like injected into our data store as well.
There are really two separate things and firebase you've got authentication and you've got the database.
They can turn to read data from each other but the database does not inherently have like a separate
private bucket for each of our users like we have to set up that type of system.
We want it to.
All right.
Maybe I'm not making too much sense here with this diagram.
Let's check out the sun maybe this will make a little bit more sense.
So this is essentially the data structure that we're going to see inside of our application at the very
top level.
So this is like all data that exists in firebase is everything for all the different users our entire
application.
At the very top level we're going to have a collection of users.
So I literally mean like a user's key that is going to point at an object the keys of that object are
each of our individual users.
So like user with ID 4 or 5 6 or user with ID 1 to 3 then each of these users will have a collection
of employees.
So here's user 1 2 3.
They have a collection of employees that contains employee ID 1 an ID 2 and then each employee in turn
has their own name phone number and shift.
All right.
So that's this is the general idea here.
I really get the feeling that this might not be you know maybe this is making sense to you.
Definitely.
Jason Skinner like this is something where it's really a lot more easy if you kind of walk through it
yourself and get to see the data especially in the firebase cons..
So let's let's treat this as just kind of a very broad overview of what's going on here and continue.
And just a little bit and figure out like how do we actually put this thing together.
Though one last really important thing that I want to point out here is that each user who signs up
for our app is going to have their own little slice of data right.
So here is user 1 2 3.
They're going to have their own little collection of employees right here and we should make sure that
we implement some type of security in our application to make sure that users cannot hack around in
our app and somehow read like the employees that user 4 or 5 6 has.
And so we need to make sure that we have some amount of security in firebase.
All right let's go into the next section and expand a little bit more on security.